to record alright this is the all ipfs
All Hands call for May 7th 2018 and
we're stand I'm the moderator so if you
are attending and haven't added
yourselves to the heck back go ahead and
do that now and we're now recording and
oh do we have any agenda it looks like
we have one on the list right now it
might be a very short meeting so TJ TV
dominic go ahead with your item all
right so when des our summer is quick
approaching and we do not have mount
support on Windows which is going to
make installing air-conditioning quite
difficult hilarious jokes aside there is
no mount support on Windows not first
party and not even third party there's
two projects that I know of that
attempts to have ipfs mountable on
Windows but I haven't had success with
them and I check on them about once a
year at least so I just wanted to make a
statement of intent saying that this is
going to be something I'm going to be
focusing on it's just at least getting
feature parity with UNIX on this so that
we can have a read-only so that we can
have read-only access to ipfs and IP NS
objects through the file system or at
least exposed to the operating system as
a file system but ideally I would like
to incorporate some of the stuff that
Alan Shaw has has done with em FS where
we expose also a writable
route to the operating system so there's
not much really to talk about at the
moment I just wanted to make it known
that that's something I'm going to be
focusing on so if you're interested in
any of that please reach out to me and
that's basically it any question is
anyone interested in jumping in on
helping domine
okay that just isn't their windows it's
a Duncan or Dukan as a wrapper for fuse
yeah so we there's there's two third
party of approaches to mounting right
now that used oaken or rather dokkan
fork called Oconee which they they get
as far as to mount a drive letter but as
soon as you start dealing with bigger
data sets they they hang indefinitely
the one that was just posted in the chat
is an alternative to that when FSP which
is basically our alternative to fuse on
Windows but also wraps fuse so it's
these are the kind of kinds of things
I'm going to be focusing on and
hopefully we can start a discussion on
this where it's like what what libraries
should we should we be using for this
what is the feature set we want to
target for this should we change
functionality on UNIX and and that kind
of stuff but the the current approach
that I'm thinking of is that will likely
want to use win FSP for the windows side
of things and at least get feature
parity with unix but ideally we'd like
to extend out mount on both unix and
windows inside of go ipfs whether or not
we should keep that and go ifs though or
branch that out to a separate repository
is another thing left to discuss as well
right um I just want to say I actually
have some experience writing a window
windows fuse this was an open source
project about ten years ago it died
dokin became kind of the de facto like
standard but III well I won't waste
everyone's time on the call but just
really briefly
dokin has a bunch of subtle problems
that aren't gonna be immediately obvious
um just as an example when Microsoft
Office applications open and close files
they do really funky stuff like they
make a copy of the file and then open
that and just just Windows Explorer does
weird stuff so there's a lot of
subtleties here I'm like 10 years out of
date so I'm not sure how helpful I'm
gonna be but Windows probably hasn't
changed the kernel hasn't changed
Washington years so anyway if I can help
I'm happy to have it talk offline
cool thank you Mike so Smith Dominic's
not alone
yeah nice to have some witness support
finally just a quick quick comment on
that too when FSP seems to have been
born out of frustration with the
fundamental problems of dokkan so it's
pretty immature at right now but I'm
interested in looking at it and seeing
if it's a viable option for us going
forward we could potentially make
improvements like once you get a Windows
kernel development environment setup
which is kind of a hassle um but but
easier with you know the VMS and stuff
um you can you know you can do a lot
like step through the kernel code figure
out where is it um deadlocking and stuff
and but it's it's it's like a serious
undertaking but maybe maybe we should
focus on trying to improve when FSP
caused oaken's been crappy for like tip
10 years or however long it's existed
agreed yeah all right I'm gonna defer
this to asynchronous comes but it's nice
to help people actually talking about
Windows support that's been neglected
for a long time working hard to give it
some love so live p2p no trust that's
magic
hi so I have prepared some slides
because I have been working on this
lipid cannot trust project my designs to
know it and now I want to actually wait
a minute I have to select a winner to
share so I have been working on this
project IPP no trust which basically
solves the problem of decentralization
in the browser because currently
manipulate the network is very
decentralized budge the browser isn't so
in a normal node now the centralized
moonstruck nodes but you know it also
uses various methods such as mdns on
gauge key the discard key our styles or
various transplants CCP WebSockets UDP
and this means that there are thousands
of nodes that can diet which means that
everything is decentralized
but in a browser there's this problem
that decides the bootstrap nodes and I
was only a cookies circuit which pushes
traffic to the bootstrap nodes and there
was WebSockets are which is the heck
that existed before me loopy so good and
then there is also wet RTC star which
seems to kill the browser by using too
much memory and then technically
WebSockets could be used but that
obviously does work on any later twin
set nowadays because every website uses
HTTP and so I told why not use WebSocket
secure but that would require
certificates
there scientists certificates obviously
don't work so I made this tiny DNS heck
which basically converts some IP
addresses into and DNS address that
later can we use
that the certificate can later be issued
for and that basically hex around all
these limitations and now notes that run
on random machines can acquire a
certificate from deliberately neutral
server for their IP address and the
browser can dial them directly from any
website and lo limitations whatsoever
are involved and you notice this college
and our flat sucks so even if the main
node goes down I don't know the network
will still relay all the fruits up
messages so the network can still work
even if the main notice down and thus
the browser becomes more decentralized
there is also a demo available on
Liberty no trust on TK / demo and the
future plans are now basically dead I
want to make this module more robust and
secure and maybe finish up the tests and
I also want them to get deployed and it
will appear infrastructure and maybe
make it get used in production so my
main problem has been that simply it
look it looks like not so many people
care about it and I just want to raise
awareness that this thing still exists
and I may need some help and getting it
to run production because obviously I
can't apply myself and I don't know if
the point even that's great so yeah now
it's time for some Q&A big questions or
comments
of comments in a question but I don't
see fail audio events
cuckoo first of all thank you so much
for the presentation machi I think this
is a really nice way to like capture
like the intent of the project something
that we actually needed for a while as
its it is something very ambitious and
very new and this way we all are on the
same page so thank you for that the well
so my question is does this mean that we
can dial to any mill behind the net or
just notes that are listening on a
WebSocket endpoint but they still need
to have a public IP address they need to
have a public IP address or a method of
making it public using various methods
of not circumvention if you export any
of the phrase letters of Nats equation
so I'm asking like if for the cases so a
lot of the browser nodes will have so I
might try to understand if it is just
like a quick setup for people that one
to the point GS a professed nodes on a
server machine or if this is actually a
solution that for any browser nodes that
stands behind or actually for any just
vicar so that change behind the net that
so that it can be dialed from a browser
node this is actually a solution for all
kinds of nodes but only obviously note
that does not run in the browser can
acquire certificate also not all matters
of not circumvention work and I think
you can P should work but there are also
other methods that use some methods to
confuse the firewall into opening
connection and I think this was UDP
punching or something that it doesn't
work
but it works for mostly all other cans
as soon as the public it should work so
interesting one one more question I said
once in your hand so I'll just continue
like in the past there were problems
were for example CD ends had one
certificate that then they created other
certificates at dependent on the first
one to give to different websites and
then when one of those websites were
actually hosting some kind of malicious
content some kind of like that bits that
had to be blocked in certain region then
all the other websites got blocked
because of that and so there was for
some time a blackout for many many
companies that they didn't realize what
was happening is they're like have you
considered this scenario where someone
just uses a fighter back it gets very
easy to get a certificate under we pedo
pedo or some even other domain likely
p2p not trust and therefore then uses
that six tickets to actually do some bad
stuff and therefore blocks every single
other certificate in certain regions
yeah I I didn't really think that true
but I think that might be a problem but
it could also somehow be resolved
because there are for example also other
public domains for example combat UK
which is the common prefix of commercial
websites in the UK and that also doesn't
get blocked and that's also just the
domain so I guess it should be possible
to somehow arrange that we simply say
that we are not responsible for
everything that desert domains do and
some I'll pass on the responsibility to
the government to block a specific
address and not your domain okay so
basically more room to explore Jenny you
have a question yeah so it was actually
it's as stem from the Stop Online Piracy
Act and so and I think Microsoft
actually had this - were actually they
whatever someone was
windows licences on some domain and
basically the government actually
allowed when Microsoft's to take over
the entire domain and actually reroute
and so so any any potentially malicious
activity on if you want to do what is of
the p2p or no trust it's like the
government actually will could take down
the entire domain and given the content
that potentially would be going over IP
FS or lewd p2p I think then would that's
a one point of failure I don't see any
other way around it but it's still um
could be pose a challenge and also I
think the other Matt my one question is
with let's encrypt are you proving
ownership with just a DNS with a text
entry on a DNS domain custom web server
forbit it results the addresses and also
puts in the txt records if required okay
so I was kind of curious about WD was
saying about someone on the network
providing bad bits essentially and
ruining it for everyone something that
came to my mind was the ability to relay
traffic for other nodes I know this is
something that's not or that's being
explored right now and I was wondering
if you had considered the interactions
with stuff like that like if I make
myself a relay and allow someone to use
me as a as a point to relay their
content would that expose me to I guess
any bad behavior
like I would essentially be an open
proxy for someone's malicious activity
and I'm guessing that that would impact
my node negatively that's something you
would considered I think that is
something that's actually part of peer
to peer circuit because the beauty no
trust itself does not do any relaying at
all it just provides what's a good
secure connection but I think it's
something that should be considered
I in terms of the circuits the at least
in that case the inside the encryption
from end to end deduction Krypton
through the circuit so the node that's
sitting in between the Box Igbo and
actually able to see the data back of
all the node at the endpoint actually
identified itself to the other side so
it's not it's not quite like torque oh
but yes it may be an issue but it's all
like you're actually seeing the bits and
actually happened a bit through like in
clear-text
you're basically just like passing like
I encrypted before you catch a gotcha
so where can we redirect this discussion
to so we can continue this is a and then
Mike and daveed you have any suggestions
about how to like how this conversation
can continue or just leave it with that
I think as always like it's always good
to have an issue like we pick a few
projects to keep discussing it just like
to keep track of it we can also just
like use that issue to point to the
repeated appear you know trust repo and
then continue there thank you great it
makes it so much clearer like what
you're working on and why you're working
on it and what the implications are so
it's wonderful thank you I just made the
presentation in 30 minutes well what is
well done is worth the 30 minutes I'd
say next item is me it's more of a just
a reminder that ipfs summit planning is
coming along is anyone interested in
being involved in the planning for the
summit pitch is expressing interest
anyone else interested okay so all right
Kyle
all right and so if you're interested
check me and wolves as we start spinning
things up we'll we'll start figuring out
how people can help us make this happen
and in the meantime Mike and I are doing
a bunch of the work two beads doing a
bunch of the work yeah we'll be putting
together Johnny were you is it a
question or you want to help a mode to
help I'm actually I'll be in Berlin the
week before in the last week of June and
so we are we said oh he hard hard on the
dates we are not fully fully committed
but we are they're pretty firm on
shooting for June July 10th through 13th
okay so it it depends on at this point
on whether we get the hotel blocks and
the menu but we'll see power source so
it would be in Berlin or her yeah so
that I keep this yeah so the reblued
weren't on last week's we're doing two
events this year the ipfs summit which
will be in July in Berlin is a smaller
meeting that's for people who are
actively involved in contributing on
ipfs or lib p2p or PLD so it's like
people who are existing contribute
contributors or very active adopters and
then in November and Lisbon will be
doing the IQ test conference which will
be a bigger event that's open invitation
or open registration anyone can come and
it'll be less it's where the one in July
in Berlin is gonna be like a working
meeting um so very heads down get work
done show up with a lot of context
already so so that's like the
distinction between the two but they'll
both be in Europe one in July one in in
November
all right anyone else on that I don't
see no we have multiple screens I'm
checking for him okay and then I'll
follow up with the people who raised
their hands all right next item yeah so
RFC's I'm gonna be prodding the the
working group captains again to review
the RFC's that are open we need to get
those merged in order to be able to have
the working groups have meetings at the
summit because technically we didn't
have working groups don't officially
exist they they're just like a
placeholder that we've been using until
we actually formally form those working
groups and then I wanted to flag this
thing of making decisions so like
there's lots of work happening in
parallel right now and I'm not sure that
everyone
I'm not sure that everyone is catching
all the decisions that are happening so
for example Rob last week on last week's
All Hands announced that he had an issue
that had been open for a while proposing
how we handled the like dozens of
deprecated github repositories in the IP
FS board that issues been open for a
long time he gave a final like
announcement last week saying ok if
nobody chimes in then we're gonna go
ahead with the proposal in that issue
and so now in theory we're just moving
ahead but I'm still not 100% confident
that everyone who has an opinion about
this actually paid attention or knew
about it so does anyone have any
thoughts on how like what is the right
process we can put into place so that we
can be confident that people who care
about something know that they have an
opportunity to chime in and actually
turn it in time to be I don't have the
right answer but I have a couple of
thoughts and because we also have some
like some questions that feel very
similar in Jesslyn typically they are
more about like kill deadlines and like
best practices and or even like API is
like how we structure API as I know we
used our dogs which typically are things
that are not tracked by people's
objectives and key results and typically
are questions that require like a lot of
people as attention to actually paging
and understand what is being asked and
what is the timeline to take such
decision and their implications and so
to make sure that like we actually have
an opportunity to check in with each
other when one of those questions
appears we typically tag those issues
those those asks those proposals with
exploration like an exploration label
and once per quarter it's when we
actually go through all of those issues
and like schedule some time to discuss
those and then try to make some
decisions over them might try to use
that focus time to actually review them
make some decisions and then what
whatever it's left its left for the next
quarter discussion or whatever appears
during the quarter he's put on hold till
the next quarter of course like this
doesn't work for all kinds of issues
because some of them are very urgent
like they need to be and you know if one
two weeks maybe four weeks time and but
for all the other ones that are less
urgent for example deprecating people's
could be a good example I think it's
plausible to say okay here's a proposal
like no one is listening or getting time
to pay you know what this means
let's make sure that like when we plan
for next quarter when we have those
retrospectives when we have those
sessions we also had want to review this
issue and many others that are out there
hanging around this is like what they've
been doing I'm not saying that this is
like the right solution for every single
project but well see the approach we
took for these kind of questions
have you given any thought to which of
those issues would actually make sense
as an RFC and should actually that we
could use the RFC process as a way of
flagging things that are requests for
comments that will then either be
accepted or not we certainly see shoes
before RFC you as a thing but yeah like
I guess like what you are saying is
correct like these should get them out
through an RFC rather than just like
issue the proposal and it's efficient
but still I think it still applies right
I keep it in with the RFC it'll be good
to try to schedule all of these like
full reviews and decisions to a one
point in time rather than at like being
unsure when people are actually paying
it that you're not like my experience
and what I observe is like everyone's
just like super heads down with their
key results making it really hard for
people to like shift into a new context
I was just curious here for things like
this that really require the attention
of either multiple people or the team as
a whole entity it seems like the main
point where everyone converges is email
where it's like we have these meetings
which are optional you can hang out in
the IRC or not it seems like the thing
everyone convenes on this email and we
already have team stuff set up where you
can just message the list and get that
announced to everyone on it and I think
things like this that seems like an
appropriate use of that where it's like
if you need decisions from multiple
people to say like should this repo get
axed or not you know I need a decision
this week maybe that's the place we
should be doing that stuff I'm not sure
keep in mind a comment on my github
issue also shows up isn't you know and
so the people who are only watching
their emails can still also and more my
question is more about what are the
things we can't ignore this is an
important decision that needs to be made
by next time pay attention if you have
an opinion because after X date the
decision has already been made and your
lack of chiming in is a favor and like
that's not always true with all emails
and it's not always true with all github
issue comments right so how do we how do
we signal natural conversation that's
extra attention to hmm
I agree with that I guess the only thing
for me is that in my personal inbox is
that those things are very obviously
separated I know a lot of people here
probably have filters applied for their
github issues and things of that where
maybe that gets missed alternatively
though maybe we could exploit that and
maybe have some kind of you know special
word or something I think it's picked up
by a filter and it's we just really make
sure that this is something you should
see but honestly I'm not sure about it
so yeah we should we'll keep that in
mind so the email should go out some
sort of email should go out about these
things and they should have some sort of
special term to to flag this like action
required or RFC well alright so thank
you thank you for chiming in on that did
anyone else have final things who will
go to the next one all right oh so this
the confusion that because this bot has
been broken for months and is not
generating the hack pads for us if we
use a Google document we can just have
one Google document that the that the
calendar links to we just put it into
the calendar and buy it it's always the
same document and we just we just put
the notes up like this so just
accumulate notes in a longer and longer
document I guess technically we could do
that with that hack that also is just I
think heck md gets a little bit wonky
when documents get really long but what
are people's thoughts on this I also
noticed last week that when we were
using a Google document people added
more things to the agenda people were
more active about adding to the notes or
correcting the notes so there was
something beneficial on the UX side that
was getting people more engaged with
stuff in that document which I enjoyed
anyone else have observations or
inclinations Mike yeah I'm a big
supporter of the model where you just
have a a running agenda Google Doc in
the in the invite either I've observed
the same thing as you that people seem
more willing to just jump in and edit
because the date you know they obviously
create a really easy editing interface I
do recognize the drawback that it
doesn't produce markdown it produces
data in a completely proprietary Google
owned format but even in spite of that I
I've seen teams work really well under
that model
all right anyone else thoughts on this
there was some plus ones in the chat for
this see what Lars was hearing he went
away he might have an opinion
oh they're in here oh the only thing I'd
like to make sure is that we still
commit notes to the repo so that they
don't get locked in some cloud and and
to find some way to deal with the
markdown um I took the note last weekend
in the Google Doc and then after what
they went through them and converted
them to markdown and I think there was
there's a plug-in or extension for
somewhere that does it yeah I've
actually I've used that plug-in um
honestly it's not perfect but it will
take your Google Doc and export it into
markdown and we could potentially even
script that so that it's just like every
week we're just scraping the Google Doc
so yeah it's an option yeah good so in
the chat Dimitri is expressing some
misgivings doing it should I open and
github issue for discussing this or
should we just go ahead with trying the
Google Docs and then change if it
doesn't work anyone feel like this needs
to be like go through the whole like
open an issue discuss it I mean the
thing we do right now it's broken anyway
um okay then I'll set up the Google
document is there somewhere I'll just
we'll add it to the calendar in wall
starting next week we'll use that all
right so that was mine to be has an
announcement
all right yeah just a quick announcement
essentially we completed the upside to
the JavaScript code guidelines and we
got included the legal entities protocol
we started like we started the protocol
last week and I'm sorry signing winburn
players you can check the link that I
put here on the notes to see the full
table like including all the modules
that are part of the GS ecosystem total
of 70 and right now I'm really happy to
say that like 41 of those 70 modules
have a new assigned wingman trainer
someone that is going to be available
pretty paying attention replying to
issues merging pro requests doing LPM
publishes of those modules for the
remaining I will act as the interim weed
maintainer or just leave container but
yeah so you should see a lot of more
progress happening on JSON as more
people have now the power and
responsibility the ownership for more
pieces of the project if you're
interested in learning more about what
does this mean like again if you check
that JS code guidelines micro movement
on ipfs community it's fully described
there and that's it thank you everyone
that stepped up to become a wing
maintainer of one of the modules of JCPS
it's progressed to share the
responsibility and ownership with you
and I am really happy like I couldn't be
more happy
thank you for doing all that work to be
great mm-hm it looks like we've hit all
of the agenda items I added welcome to
new people because there's a couple
couple names or faces I don't recognize
so if you're new and you've never had a
chance to introduce yourself on this
call before if you'd like to if you'd
like raise your hand or say on the chat
whether you'd like to say hello just
giving a chance for people to jump in
but you don't have to if you don't want
okay I don't see anyone jumping in all
right
well then thank you everyone for a good
call and we're at the were below the 45
minute mark so so our new 45 minute
length they compromise length we hit it
and then there is another call after
this one is that right
there's the JavaScript call is after
this one is that right to be okay so
some of you will will be hoppy on
another call in 15 minutes so thank you
very much and you guys have a have a
great week
okay come on thank you but